Dear Steve
====

I think I should thank you. Tonight, you gave me an opportunity to rediscover
how strong I really am.

When you made a crass joke about "women with a penis," and I insisted you
apologise for it, you told me that I needed to "toughen up," and that "all
people have problems."

The thing is, Steve, I was tough. I refused to be cowed by your bigotry. What
you were asking me to do, Steve, was to actually be *weak*. You insisted, by
telling me that I was not allowed to be upset about your joke, and by standing
by my feelings, and refusing to "let it go," that I be the opposite of
"tough."

No, what you wanted was for me to submit to this awful machine that grinds us
down, that weakens our self-esteem and self-worth. That tells us that standing
up for what we believe in, standing up *ever for ourselves* is a vanity, or is
the mark of someone self-absorbed, someone who is hysterical.

But what does this give us?

We are a society that enables abuse. We tell people who are abused that they
had it coming. We deny that they were abused to begin with. We tell people who
are hazed and bullied that it is part of being a person, of growing up, that
it's normal in the workplace, in our social circles, and in our families.

And this destroys people. People lose the will to live. They stop enjoying
their lives because they do not feel they are worthy of joy and happiness.

Because, Steve, of people like you.

So my being upset with you was not primarily about your "joke." It was your
insistence that *I* must accept it, that *I* must perpetuate this culture of
smashing people who do not conform, of taking away individuality, this culture
that robs people of their lives. That *I* somehow must accept this.

And I will not.

Before coming out, I was basically unafraid of anything. My own mortality
didn't even bother me. I have wondered where this confidence and this bravery
in the face of actions like yours went. Why today am I afraid of meeting
people like you?

As you continued to tell me what you thought about me, and my position in
society, that I should, effectively, know my place, I stood my ground. I let
that bridge burn, and I ended a seven-year friendship I liked a lot. I turned
my back on a professional colleague I valued in my life. And I knew I was
doing it, when I did it. I knew why. And I wasn't afraid.

Because I am stronger than that.

Somehow, since coming out, I've lost track of that. I've held my tongue when I
was being mistreated. I've run out of stores crying. And I did this because
for some reason, people expect me to take the unending abuse, and just "suck
it up."

But I never did this before coming out, and I have no reason to do it now.

I don't owe you or anyone my submission.

So, Steve, thank you for being that last straw. I am done with cowering around
bullies. It is just not who I am, and if anything, I owe it to the people who
come after me to stop this when I see it. To not reward bullying with
submission and fear.

