This is the first thing I have written publicly about my own gender status -
the fact that I am a transgender woman - if this is a surprise to you, there
will likely be future missives that cover some of the basics about myself, my
own process, how to relate to me (tl;dr: exactly the same as before), and so
forth.

#### On misgendering, and why it is an issue

##### A thought experiment
Have you ever been out with a friend and had them point out to you, "hey, you
have a piece of spinach stuck to your teeth"? It is kind of embarrassing. It
isn't something you can readily see on yourself; it's something that everyone
else can see, but generally only if you do a particular thing (smile, laugh,
talk, and so on).

You can pick at it or rinse your mouth out or something, but you don't always
get it. Particularly pernicious pieces of black pepper or spinach or coffee
stains, all these things - they can come back to haunt us later. If this were
serious, we might become insecure about this.

Now imagine for a moment having something stuck to your teeth was grounds for
being denied access to bathrooms. To restaurants. That if this happened, people
might literally want to harm or mock you. Further imagine with me that once
somebody had seen this blemish in your teeth that it could not be un-done or
removed. Once so identified as she-with-filthy-mouth, you were marked thusly
for life.

This is what happens when somebody misgenders you.

Traversing my day-to-day, it almost never actually occurs to me that I am
transgender. That at some point in my life, I was regarded as "a man." Why
would it? I am sure it does not occur to cisgender people especially often as
they walk around, "I am a woman," or "I am a man;" rather, we all have these
sorts of cultural rituals and social expectations we call "gender." But because
we are sort of steeped in these things, we don't really think about them. Why
would we? Aside from "which restroom do I use," it really shouldn't come up in
daily life. It certainly doesn't in mine - not very often, anyways.

This is rather like assuming that after you brushed your teeth and left the
house this morning, your mouth was free of spinach and black pepper, that your
breath was reasonably free of odor, and that your "oral presentation" is what
you would expect it to be.

##### What happens when something goes Wrong
Here is a typical, relatively benign example of what can happen during a
typical incident of misgendering. Understand that some people react much less
dramatically, and some people react much more strongly than I myself did.
Because of certain events that happened to me early-on in my own transition, I
have a substantial amount of trauma associated with misgendering.

I had gone to Sephora after work one day to pick up moisturiser. To be very
clear, I looked like this:

![Jane, 18th August 2014](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/BvWphBZCQAAHOST.jpg)

After being told that I really didn't want a Shiseido product and that I really
should go look at the computer and ask it what I wanted, the store employee
brought over one of her coworkers, to, presumably, convince me. In doing so,
she referred to me as "he" and "him."

The entire day, I had gotten a lot done; I'd written a bunch of software, I'd
talked to colleagues. I'd been in meetings. I'd ridden the train an hour in
aggregate or so. And it was a lovely day, and I felt pretty great.

Immediately, this all crashed down around me. Immediately, literally the moment
these words left her mouth, I became afraid. What is it about my "presentation"
- my clothing, my posture, my voice, my mannerisms, et cetera - that leads
people to think I am "male"? Quickly this context switches to what changes to
their behavior can I now expect? Am I now in danger? Do I have to explain to
this person why it is upsetting to me?

Anyone who has had a panic attack recognises this spiral of recursive, almost
fractal cogitation. Each thought breaks into four smaller, preceding thoughts,
which spin off into consequences and possibilities, all negative.

Because in the past, my safety has come into direct question due to my "not
passing as a woman," the idea that I could be in a department store and someone
would - accidentally or not - assert that I am not a woman and merely
pretending to be so is immensely frightening for me.

In this incident, I immediately left the store. I did not say a word. I turned
on my heel and went as fast to the train station as I could, stopping at a
trash can to vomit. Upon getting home, I took my makeup off as quickly as I
could, threw up again until I hurt from it, and collapsed into bed crying for
reasons that I should not have to go into. I stayed there the remainder of the
night.

This is a serious thing for me, and you will find for almost all transgender
people.

##### But let's also talk about dignity
I will say a few things here that may seem to breach general decorum when it
comes to inter-gender relations. I understand that it is seen as kind of gauche
for women to talk about "I have breasts, please treat me a certain way," and we
often say "no, please don't treat me differently because I have breasts." I
hope that you will understand by reading this that the argument I am making is
not that I should be treated specially, and that the circumstances necessitate
a fairly frank discussion.

When I first explained the idea of misgendering to my friend Devin, she was
fairly shocked. "But you have breasts, Jane." I nodded. "No, I mean, you wear a
*bra*, Jane. You *obviously* wear a *bra*." I nodded again. "Well, what is
their *expletive* problem?"

Devin is correct. What she is implying here is that there are men who are
fairly "effeminate." There are also men that, for whatever reason, have
developed breast tissue, or who have adipose (fatty) deposits on their chests
where we would normally expect female breasts to be.

None of these men wear a bra. It's kind of difficult to conceal the
presence of a bra; a brassiere actually presents the breast in a way that is
fairly unnatural in appearance as it serves the dual purpose of holding for
comfort and also shaping for style. Breasts, naturally, sort of sit limply
about the chest and do not provide much of a pronounced profile. Generally.

This is sort of a dead giveaway that someone is wearing women's garments.
That someone is making a deliberate choice to appear female by presenting -
*styling* her breasts.

So what is happening when somebody refers to someone who is obviously wearing
women's clothing as "he?" Well, first and foremost, they are making a judgment
that, despite whatever their appearance, that the "true identity" of this
person is in fact male. They are further revealing that they have taken the
time to evaluate that person's gender presentation (the aforementioned
clothing, posture, voice, secondary sex characteristics, and so forth), and
determined that, while it may superficially appear to be female, ultimately,
this is a male person - a man.

What does this *actually* mean?

Well, it is incredibly dehumanising. It's invalidating. It's othering. It means
that whatever efforts this person has gone to (and if you know anything about
gender transition you are aware that it is a process that is so difficult it
often - too often - results in a person killing themselves; it is indescribably
arduous and painful), whatever their presentation, whatever their wishes, that
it's not "good enough" to be judged female. That furthermore, the person has
proactively *chosen to refer to them* by a word or name that this person *does
not wish for themselves.*

That's pretty disgusting. That this person has gone through this process that
is acknowledged to be so difficult as to literally kill people, and is coming
to you from what is acknowledged to be a position of deep vulnerability, and
the response is to choose to invalidate all that, to choose to, *to their
face*, explain that you don't think they deserve to be treated with the dignity
of any other woman.

It is exactly equivalent to using an epithet to refer to someone's ethnic
background. You know they don't want to be called that, but in your head, they
*are* that, and you are referring to them as that *despite their wishing to be
treated like a human.* The way *you* want to be treated.

##### But it's a mistake / But it's just a word / Related counter-arguments
One of the things I have heard most frequently about the use of pronouns, and
of using former names (my name is Jane today. Calling me "Joe" because that was
my name before is no more acceptable than calling me "him" or "sir") is that
"but it's just a word," and "but it's an accident, and you're reacting so
heinously!"

Let's be very clear. Words are the substrate that we use to communicate
information. That our identities - male, female, professions, ethnicity,
adjectives like "dangerous," epithets, *all* words - are deeply significant and
important. While it is just a word when it comes out of your mouth, the
important thing is that this word refers to a meaning, and that meaning belies
the way a person thinks about a thing.

When somebody says that another person is a "terorrist," we de facto remove many 
of the protections that somebody who is a "soldier" has in society. To further
the analogy, it is perceived to be "more okay" to kill a "soldier" or
"combatatant" than it is to kill a "civilian." The difference between a "riot"
and a "demonstration" is the line we draw between "okay to use teargas" and 
"peaceful."

So your words, they betray the way you think about things. They betray the way
society is expected to treat a person. Words have enormous meaning. They
literally are who we are, even though they may be curious glottal stops and
diphthongs, morphemes and phonemes, vowels and consonants spewed across a big
field of text on a computer.

But to finish this thought on the weight of a word, if words are *not* so
meaningful, you have every reason to simply accede to the requests of this
person to use their preferred pronoun; for me, this is "she" and related.

You have no reason at all not to. If words are so important, you are commiting
an egregious offense by not using the correct word, and if they are not
important, you have no reason not to use the correct word.

The other thing we - people who get misgendered - hear a lot is "but it was
just a mistake."

The quickest way to refute this is to say "if you run over a pedestrian with
your car, it is assumed you did not *mean* to do so. But they are still very
much in need of a trip to hospital. They have still been struck by your car. It
still happened." The severity of this situation is determined by *the
pedestrian*, not by your intent or lack thereof.

Going further with this, though, the important fact is that when you misgender
someone, you reveal that you have evaluated their gender in your own head, and
you have decided that they are not in fact what they appear to be. That
somewhere in your head, I am a man, despite my obvious effort to demonstrate
the contrary.

What does this say to me about your opinion of me?

What should I then think about my own safety around you?

Who can I expect you to tell this realisation you've had - that I am actually a
man in woman's clothing?

Do you see how quickly this becomes incredibly problematic for me, even if it
is "a mistake" for you? That if it is just a syllable for you - "him" - that it
is indeed incredibly significant for me?

##### A last note on the perception of men-in-dresses and the like
There is this pehnomenon of "drag." I am the first to admit that I do not know
the first thing about drag. I never "cross-dressed" before transitioning, and
of course, I am not "cross-dressing" today when I wear a dress.

But I have heard it said that it is *so confusing* that there are "men in drag"
such as [Priscilla, Queen of the
Desert](http://d3rm69wky8vagu.cloudfront.net/photos/large/4.160374.jpg). There
are a couple of points to make here. First, drag performers are almost all
cisgender. That is, drag is in fact *performance* for them. For a transgender
person, dressing in gender-appropriate clothing is *not* performance. It's
going to work. Or out for a burger. Or going to bed.

The other important thing to add here is that almost all drag performers, when
performing drag, *prefer to be called by the expected pronouns.* Even if you
see a "man in a dress" and they are *clearly* a man in a dress made of
flip-flops, this person would *still prefer to be called she* while performing
drag.

Furthermore, people who are performing drag *understandably expect attention
because they are performing.*

When I go to the supermarket, or I walk into my building at work, or I go to
buy moisturiser at Sephora, *I am not performing anything.* What you see is who
I am and you should evaluate exactly that.

If I come to you and I am wearing eyeliner and eyeshadow and rouge and a blouse
and a skirt and cat-eye spectacles and pumps, there is exactly zero chance that
I want to be called "sir," or "him," or "he," even if I am 2 meters tall. Even
if my voice is deeper than you'd expect. Even if you, in your miraculous
ability to perceive my *"true identity"*, have discerned that I am in fact some
kind of very confused man, *you still need to call me ma'am, she, her, and so
on. Because I am a woman. Because you owe it to everyone to treat people with
decency. Because I treat you with decency, and I use the pronouns appropriate
for you.

Not doing so, for transgender people, can lead to the situation I describe
above. Your "mistake," or your "correct perception of my assigned sex at birth"
can literally lead to my vomiting up my lunch in a train station in *minutes*.
Can lead to my crying myself to sleep in bed. Can lead to my *fearing for my
safety.*

What gives you the right to do this by accident or intent?

What makes this *so important* to you that you must evaluate my gender and
decide for yourself whether I am "really" a woman, or some kind of confused man
pretending at gender? Really, what gives you the right?
